Provide documentation for all collectd plugins (#385)
infrawatch/documentation: common/collectd/ref_collectd-plugins.adoc

        calculatesum: True
----

////
// Not recommended for use. No use cases have been defined.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::amqp

> Use the `amqp` plugin to publish messages to an AMQP0.9 compatible message bus, for example RabbitMQ, for consumption by Graphite. This plugin statically defines the topic of `graphite`.

Author: Will merge. This is just the content that was already here :)

        calculatesum: True
----

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::amqp

> Use the `amqp` plugin to publish messages to an AMQP0.9 compatible message bus, for example RabbitMQ, for consumption by Graphite.  This plugin statically defines the topic of `graphite`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `amqp` plugin to publish messages to an AMQP0.9 compatible message bus, for example RabbitMQ, for consumption by Graphite. This plugin statically defines the topic of `graphite`.
```

[discrete]

> == collectd::plugin::ampq

Reviewer 2: the amqp plugin is not recommended for use.

Author: Will comment out

Author: Even though commented out, adjust the title if we ever revive it for some reason. `s/ampq/amqp/`

> == collectd::plugin::ampq

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== collectd::plugin::ampq

////
// Not recommended for use.
```

Author: `////` is an opening block comment in asciidoc. You need to close it as well at the end of the block otherwise the block commenting will be broken for everything after this.

Author: Will fix syntax

> Use the `amqp` plugins to publish messages to an AMQP0.9 compatible message bus (such as RabbitMQ) for consumption by Graphite. Statically defines the topic of `graphite`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `amqp` plugin to publish messages to an AMQP0.9 compatible message bus, for example RabbitMQ), for consumption by Graphite.  This plugin statically defines the topic of `graphite`.
```

Reviewer: Actually, do we need the word "statically"?

Author: You could also say "hard coded" or something similar. The communication intent is that you can't change the topic value.

.Example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
parameter_defaults:
  CollectdExtraPlugins:
    - amqp1

  ExtraConfig:
    collectd::plugin::amqp1::send_queue_limit: 5000
----

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::apache

> Use the `apache` plugin to collect Apache data from the mod_status plugin provided by the Apache web server. Each instance provided is connected to per `interval` value specified in seconds. If provided, the `timeout` interval parameter for an instance is specified in milliseconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `apache` plugin to collect Apache data from the `mod_status` plugin that is provided by the Apache web server. Each instance provided is connected to a per `interval` value specified in seconds. If provided, the `timeout` interval parameter for an instance is specified in milliseconds.
```

Reviewer: @leifmadsen 
"Each instance provided is connected to a per `interval` value specified in seconds."
Should this simply be "Each instance provided has a per `interval` value specified in seconds."

Author: Ha! I was just thinking the same thing but couldn't see your comment as I had the screen open from last week.

Reviewer 2: The mod_status plugin also needs the ExtendedStatus enabled.
More information can be found under https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_status.html

Author: @mrunge can you provide some text for that?

.apache parameters
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter

> |Type

Reviewer 3: The header in this table title is not in bold. Does line 285 just need moved up to join 284?

|===
|Parameter |Type

|instances
...

Author: Ah they were already that was (older syntax) and I didn't do a full clean up because I wasn't touching those sections, so was keeping scope on the smaller side. I'll look at the output again locally and will adjust the tables across the file to be consistent.

Author: Ah very nice find. I hadn't noticed the bold vs non-bold styling. I will address this throughout the file. Thanks!

> |instances

Reviewer 3: Is "instances" the parameter name, or is this a variable that represents the name of the instance? The example configuration below indicates that it is a variable that represents the name. If so, can/should this be changed to:

```suggestion
|<instance_name>
```

Author: This is a parameter name that contains values of type Hash. `instances` is intentional in this context.

Author: Nope you're right, I missed the "in the example" part. Nice catch, thanks!

> |<instance_name>

Author: ```suggestion
|instances
```

|Hash

|interval
|Integer

|manage-package
|Boolean

|package_install_options
|List
|===

> .apache <instance_name> parameters

Author: ```suggestion
.apache instances parameters
```

[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter
|Type

|url
|HTTP URL

|user
|String

|password
|String

|verifypeer
|Boolean

|verifyhost
|Boolean

|cacert
|AbsolutePath

|sslciphers
|String

|timeout
|Integer
|===

.Example configuration:

> In the provided example, the instance name is `localhost` which connects to the Apache web server at http://10.0.0.111/mod_status?auto. You must append `?auto` to the end of the URL otherwise the status page will be returned as a type incompatible with the plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the provided example, the instance name is `localhost` which connects to the Apache web server at http://10.0.0.111/mod_status?auto. You must append `?auto` to the end of the URL to prevent the status page returning as a type that is incompatible with the plugin.
```

[source,yaml]
----
parameter_defaults:
    ExtraConfig:

>         collectd::plugin::apache:

Author: I don't think so?

Looked up some stuff on the spec, and I realize now the change to the parameter name `instances` was wrong. It actually needs to be:

```
instances:
  localhost:
```

The example in the spec shows https://github.com/voxpupuli/puppet-collectd/blob/master/spec/classes/collectd_plugin_apache_spec.rb#L43-L63

e.g.

```
collectd::plugin::apache:
  instances:
    site1:
      ...
    site2:
      ...
```

I'll need to revert, then adjust the example here.

>         collectd::plugin::apache:

Author: Oooooook after bungling this up a few times, I got it figured out. Flipping through the docs and seeing the aggregates example, it finally clicked. Here is a working and validated configuration. I will adjust things here to account for the syntax changes.

You can _also_ use the former syntax without the `instances` reference whatsoever, as that syntax is supposed to be valid, although based on my configuration above I didn't really see that working. It's probably just safest to always use the `instances` method as shown below.

```bash
[stack@standalone minimal]$ sudo cat /var/lib/config-data/puppet-generated/collectd/etc/collectd.d/10-apache.conf
# Generated by Puppet
<LoadPlugin apache>
  Globals false
</LoadPlugin>

<Plugin "apache">
  <Instance "site1">
    URL "http://10.0.0.111/mod_status?auto"
  </Instance>
</Plugin>

[stack@standalone minimal]$ cat collectd-apache-example.yaml 
parameter_defaults:
  CollectdExtraPlugins:
    - apache

  ExtraConfig:
    collectd::plugin::apache::instances:
      site1:
        url: "http://10.0.0.111/mod_status?auto"
```

>           localhost:

Author: ```suggestion
          instances:
            localhost:
```

>               url: "http://10.0.0.111/mod_status?auto"

Author: ```suggestion
                url: "http://10.0.0.111/mod_status?auto"
```

.ceph parameters
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter
|Type

|daemons
|Array

|longrunavglatency
|Boolean

|convertspecialmetrictypes
|Boolean

|package_name
|String
|===

.Example configuration:
[source,yaml]
----
parameter_defaults:

>     ExtraConfig:

Reviewer 3: Should the example from line 501 be:

``` 
    collectd::plugin::ceph:
      daemons:
        - ceph-osd.0
```
From the other examples, and the intro, it should just be a single colon before the name of the parameter being configured.

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::contextswitch

> Use the `ContextSwitch` plugin to collect the number of context switches that the system handles. The only parameter available is `interval` which is a polling interval defined in seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `ContextSwitch` plugin to collect the number of context switches that the system handles. The only parameter available is `interval`, which is a polling interval defined in seconds.
```

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::cpufreq

Use the `cpufreq` plugin to collect the current CPU frequency. There are no parameters for this plugin.

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::csv

> The `csv` plugin writes values to a local file in CSV format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `csv` plugin to write values to a local file in CSV format.
```

> The `csv` plugin will write values to a local file in CSV format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `csv` plugin writes values to a local file in CSV format.
```

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::cpufreq

Use the `cpufreq` plugin to collect the current CPU frequency. There are no parameters for this plugin.

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::csv

Use the `csv` plugin to write values to a local file in CSV format.

.csv parameters
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter |Type

|datadir
|String

|storerates
|Boolean

|interval
|Integer

|===

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::curl_json
////

////

> // Not recommended for use.

Author: I have done another round and added at least a basic sentence to each of the comments, such as "No uses cases have been defined."

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::curl
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::curl_xml
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::dbi
////

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::df

> Use the `df` plugin to collect disk space usage information for file systems. This plugin is enabled by default.

Reviewer 4: Pretty minor, but for the cpu plugin above, this sentence was on it's own line, which stands out a bit better.

Author: Yea I can move these to their own lines, or do you think it's worth adding a full `[INFO]` flag to default enabled plugins to make it more obvious?

Here is a generated example of this in the upstream style (downstream will look different due to a different style template):

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/768751/172212717-ccc14564-ce60-4cb3-9905-71a37b241485.png)

Author: I have gone through and done this call out for all plugins that are enabled by default. I have asked the docs team to comment on this from a style perspective as well.

.disk parameters
[cols="30%,70%"]
|===
|Parameter
|Type

|disks
|Array

|ignoreselected
|Boolean

|udevnameattr
|String

|===

.disk metrics
[cols="30%,70%"]
|===
|Name
|Description

|merged

> |The number of operations that can be merged together, already queued operations, for example, one physical disk access served two or more logical operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The number of queued operations that can be merged together, for example, one physical disk access served two or more logical operations.
```

Use the `disk` plugin to collect performance statistics of hard disks and, if supported, partitions. This plugin is enabled by default.

.disk parameters
[cols="35%,30%,25%"]
|===
|Parameter |Type |Defaults

|disks
|Array
|`[]`

|ignoreselected
|Boolean
|false

|udevnameattr
|String
|_<undefined>_

|===

.disk metrics
[cols="30%,70%"]
|===
|Name |Description

|merged
|The number of queued operations that can be merged together, for example, one physical disk access served two or more logical operations.

|time
|The average time an I/O-operation takes to complete. The values might not be accurate.

|io_time
|Time spent doing I/Os (ms). You can use this metric as a device load percentage. A value of 1 second matches 100% of load.

|weighted_io_time
|Measure of both I/O completion time and the backlog that might be accumulating.

|pending_operations
|Shows queue size of pending I/O operations.

|===

.Example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
parameter_defaults:
  ExtraConfig:
    collectd::plugin::disk::disks: ['sda', 'sdb', 'sdc']

>     collectd::plugin::disk::ignoreselected: true

Author: I was matching another example I had seen earlier, and I can make a note here as well on this example. The defautl is to ignoreselected = false, which basically means by default all disks are monitored by default without any configuration required at all.

It would probably be more clear that an example, should you wish to override the defaults, is being provided but is not necessary.

I also didn't like that the input was accepting a list, but only a single value was being provided so it wasn't clear how to provide a list of disks.

>     collectd::plugin::disk::ignoreselected: true

Author: I have added this to the overview section for the `disk` plugin. Does this help?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/768751/172631008-a8c0ad70-8932-411e-b3bf-6372bf7a41d9.png)

>     collectd::plugin::disk::ignoreselected: true

Reviewer 4: Sure does! :+1:

----

.Additional resources

For more information about configuring the `disk` plugin, see https://collectd.org/documentation/manpages/collectd.conf.5.shtml#plugin_disk[disk].

////

> // Not a recommended plugin.

Author: No difference, I can clean this up for consistency. As noted earlier, end-users will never see this unless they look at the source code. Mostly for developers/documenteurs.

.plugin parameters
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter

> |Type

Reviewer 3: As this plugin is enabled by default, would it be useful to include a "Default" column in the parameters table, same as the `interface` plugin parameter table?

Author: I have gone through the file and looked at all the default enabled plugins (https://github.com/openstack/tripleo-heat-templates/blob/master/deployment/metrics/collectd-container-puppet.yaml#L78-L89) and made sure they all had tables that included a `|Defaults` column. I then cross-correlated between the values we set in deployment (https://github.com/openstack/tripleo-heat-templates/blob/master/deployment/metrics/collectd-container-puppet.yaml#L359-L396) and filled in undefined values with those from puppet-collectd (https://github.com/voxpupuli/puppet-collectd/tree/master/manifests/plugin).

I did not review these against the ansible deployment method since puppet remains the default for now.

Author: Added at 9e45068acc1cb32eff513284f2ce1f6c6629aadd

.Additional resources
* For more information about configuring the `mcelog` plugin, see https://collectd.org/documentation/manpages/collectd.conf.5.shtml#plugin_mcelog[mcelog].

////
// Not recommended for use in OpenStack.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::md
////

////

> // Not recommended for use currently. Requires additional testing and validation.

Reviewer 4: Finally, a reason!

* collectd::plugin::network::listeners
* collectd::plugin::network::servers
* collectd::plugin::network::interval
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::nfs
* collectd::plugin::nfs::interval
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::notify_nagios
////

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::ntpd

Use the `ntpd` plugin to query a local NTP server that has been configured to allow access to statistics, and retrieves information about the configured parameters and the time sync status.

.ntpd parameters

[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter
|Type

|host
|Hostname

|port
|Port number (Integer)

|reverselookups
|Boolean

|includeunitid
|Boolean

|interval
|Integer

|===

.Example configuration:
[source,yaml]
----
parameter_defaults:
  CollectdExtraPlugins:
  - ntpd

  ExtraConfig:

>     collectd::plugin::ntpd::hostname: localhost

Reviewer 3: Should this be `host` to match the parameter in the table?

```suggestion
    collectd::plugin::ntpd::host: localhost
```

Author: Yes it should be. Confirmed in both collectd-puppet example and review of the ntpd.pp manifest. Nice catch!

* collectd::plugin::ping::max_missed
* collectd::plugin::ping::size
* collectd::plugin::ping::interval
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::powerdns
* collectd::plugin::powerdns::interval
* collectd::plugin::powerdns::servers
* collectd::plugin::powerdns::recursors
* collectd::plugin::powerdns::local_socket
* collectd::plugin::powerdns::interval
////

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::processes

> The `processes` plugin provides information about system processes. Only general process statistics (the number of processes by state and the process fork rate) are collected when no additional processes have been defined. This plugin is enabled by default.

Reviewer 4: "when no additional OPTIONS have been defined" ?

Author: Hrmmmm.... I get the point here, just not sure I like _options_ necessarily. The intent here is to say if you don't define any parameters of type "process" , then you will only get the basic information rather than process specific information.

What about something like...

"Only general process statistics (the number of processes by state and the process fork rate) are collected when no processes are defined to be monitored."

Author: I have asked the documentation team to comment on my suggestion and see if we can get a good set of words here to make this more clear.

|Array
|_<undefined>_

|collect_context_switch
|Boolean
|_<undefined>_

|collect_file_descriptor
|Boolean
|_<undefined>_

|collect_memory_maps
|Boolean
|_<undefined>_

|===

//.Example configuration

.Additional resources
* For more information about configuring the `processes` plugin, see https://collectd.org/documentation/manpages/collectd.conf.5.shtml#plugin_processes[processes].

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::protocols
* collectd::plugin::protocols::ignoreselected
* collectd::plugin::protocols::values
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::python
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::sensors
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::serial
////

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::smart

Use the `smart` plugin to collect SMART information from physical disks on the node. You must also set the parameter `CollectdContainerAdditionalCapAdd` to `CAP_SYS_RAWIO` to allow the `smart` plugin to read SMART telemetry. If you do not set the `CollectdContainerAdditionalCapAdd` parameter, the following message is written to the collectd error logs: 

> `smart plugin: Running collectd as root, but the CAP_SYS_RAWIO capability is missing. The plugin's read function will probably fail. Is your init system dropping capabilities?`.

Reviewer 4: :+1: Very helpful

.plugin parameters
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter |Type

|processes
|Array

|process_matches
|Array

|collect_context_switch
|Boolean

|collect_file_descriptor
|Boolean

|collect_memory_maps
|Boolean

|===

//.Example configuration

.Additional resources
* For more information about configuring the `processes` plugin, see https://collectd.org/documentation/manpages/collectd.conf.5.shtml#plugin_processes[processes].

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::protocols
* collectd::plugin::protocols::ignoreselected
* collectd::plugin::protocols::values
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::python
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::sensors
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::serial
////

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::smart

> Use the `smart` plugin to collect SMART information from physical disks on the node. Additionally, the parameter `CollectdContainerAdditionalCapAdd` should be specified with the value `CAP_SYS_RAWIO` to allow the `smart` plugin to read SMART telemetry. If this parameter is not specified, you will see the following message in the collectd error logs: `smart plugin: Running collectd as root, but the CAP_SYS_RAWIO capability is missing. The plugin's read function will probably fail. Is your init system dropping capabilities?`.

Reviewer 3: Suggest editing as follows to use active voice, and to remove future tense:

```suggestion
Use the `smart` plugin to collect SMART information from physical disks on the node. You must also set the parameter `CollectdContainerAdditionalCapAdd` to `CAP_SYS_RAWIO` to allow the `smart` plugin to read SMART telemetry. If you do not set the `CollectdContainerAdditionalCapAdd` parameter, the following message is written to the collectd error logs: 

`smart plugin: Running collectd as root, but the CAP_SYS_RAWIO capability is missing. The plugin's read function will probably fail. Is your init system dropping capabilities?`.
```

> Use the `smart` plugin to collect SMART information from physical disks on the node. Additionally, the parameter `CollectdContainerAdditionalCapAdd` should be specified with the value `CAP_SYS_RAWIO` to allow the `smart` plugin to read SMART telemetry. If this parameter is not specified, you will see the following message in the collectd error logs: `smart plugin: Running collectd as root, but the CAP_SYS_RAWIO capability is missing. The plugin's read function will probably fail. Is your init system dropping capabilities?`.

Reviewer: Thank you @igallagh-redhat

.plugin parameters
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter
|Type

|processes
|Array

|process_matches
|Array

|collect_context_switch
|Boolean

|collect_file_descriptor
|Boolean

|collect_memory_maps
|Boolean

|===

//.Example configuration

.Additional resources
* For more information about configuring the `processes` plugin, see https://collectd.org/documentation/manpages/collectd.conf.5.shtml#plugin_processes[processes].

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::protocols
* collectd::plugin::protocols::ignoreselected
* collectd::plugin::protocols::values
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::python
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::sensors
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::serial
////

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::smart

> The `smart` plugin collects SMART information from physical disks on the node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `smart` plugin to collect SMART information from physical disks on the node.
```

> Use the `smart` plugin to collect SMART information from physical disks on the node.

Reviewer 2: The smart plugin also needs the SYS_RAWIO, which is added by adding this snippet
```
parameter_defaults:
    CollectdContainerAdditionalCapAdd: "CAP_SYS_RAWIO"
```

Reviewer 2: it is not.

Author: Will adjust and add suggested parameter

----

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::sysevent
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::syslog

* collectd::plugin::syslog::log_level
* collectd::plugin::syslog::notify_level
* collectd::plugin::syslog::interval
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::table

* collectd::plugin::table::tables
* collectd::plugin::table::interval
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::tail

* collectd::plugin::tail::files
* collectd::plugin::tail::interval
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::tail_csv
* collectd::plugin::tail_csv::metrics
* collectd::plugin::tail_csv::files
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::target_notification
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::target_replace
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::target_scale
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::target_set
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::target_v5upgrade
////

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::tcpconns

> The `tcpconns` plugin collects information about the number of TCP connections inbound or outbound from the configured port. The local port configuration represents the inbound connections to the port. The remote port configuration represents the outbound connections from the port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `tcpconns` plugin to collects information about the number of TCP connections inbound or outbound from the configured port. The local port configuration represents the inbound connections to the port. The remote port configuration represents the outbound connections from the port.
```

.tcpconns parameters
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter
|Type

|localports
|Port (Array)

|remoteports
|Port (Array)

|listening
|Boolean

|allportssummary
|Boolean

|===

.Example configuration:
[source,yaml]
----
parameter_defaults:
  CollectdExtraPlugins:
  - tcpconns

  ExtraConfig:
    collectd::plugin::tcpconns::listening: false
    collectd::plugin::tcpconns::localports:
    - 22
    collectd::plugin::tcpconns::remoteports:
    - 22
----

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::ted
////

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::thermal

The `thermal` plugin reads ACPI thermal zone information.

.thermal parameters
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter
|Type

|devices
|Array

|ignoreselected
|Boolean

|interval
|Integer
|===

> .Example configuration:

Reviewer 3: Is this example incomplete? Maybe it isn't needed if doesn't show setting the parameters?

Author: The only real parameter is the `devices` parameter, and if it's not specified, the default is to collect data from all devices. This effectively makes all parameters optional in this case.

* collectd::plugin::turbostat::tcc_activation_temp
* collectd::plugin::turbostat::running_average_power_limit
* collectd::plugin::turbostat::logical_core_names
////

////
// Not recommended to be configured beyond defaults.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::unixsock
////

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::uptime

> The `uptime` plugin collects information about system uptime. This plugin is enabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `uptime` plugin to collect information about system uptime. This plugin is enabled by default.
```

.uptime parameters
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter
|Type

|interval
|Integer
|===

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::users
* collectd::plugin::users::interval
////

////
// Not recommended for use.
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::uuid
* collectd::plugin::uuid::uuid_file
* collectd::plugin::uuid::interval
////

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::virt

Use the `virt` plugin to collect CPU, disk, network load, and other metrics through the `libvirt` API for virtual machines on the host. This plugin is enabled by default on compute hosts.

.virt parameters
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter
|Type

|connection
|String

|refresh_interval
|Hash

|domain
|String

|block_device
|String

|interface_device
|String

|ignore_selected
|Boolean

|plugin_instance_format
|String

|hostname_format
|String

|interface_format
|String

|extra_stats
|String

|===

.Example configuration:

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer 3: Should this example include:

```
parameter_defaults:
  CollectdExtraPlugins:
  - virt
```

Author: The `virt` plugin is enabled by default on nodes that have virtualization role enabled (i.e. compute nodes). The summary notes the plugin is enabled on compute nodes, which are really the ones that are going to have libvirt installed. Use of `CollectdExtraPlugins` in this instance would result in scheduling of the `virt` plugin on all hosts, which is not desired.

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::vmem

> The `vmem` plugin collects information about virtual memory from the kernel subsystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `vmem` plugin to collects information about virtual memory from the kernel subsystem.
```

.vmem parameters
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter
|Type

|verbose
|Boolean

> |inverval

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|interval
```

?
